06macrae
Tab-following text-parsing Java app created; numbers arguing tablature popularity

08barbancho
Attempt at audio-based guitar string classification. Not great results; the chosen features (frequency and nontonal spectral centroids, harmonic amplitude relationship, inharmonicity, harmonic decay, attack/sustain/release times) were too variable in their string-discrimination efficacy. Classification attempted using Fisher LDA classifier. Insightful content: Barbancho's attack/decay definitions (cited), pitch estimation method (cited), spectral peak removal (cited)
Question: what did Abesser do instead to gain his success in ../barbancho-cites/abesser.pdf?

08barbancho02jensen
Hard to read, not very helpful. Barbancho didn't stick closely to it; "based off of Jensen's model"

09fragoulis
Excellent automated discrimination of guitar v. piano notes achieved from a few non-tonal (NT) spectrum features. Method to extract NT spectrum by identifying and suppressing harmonic peaks is used by Barbancho in 08, and in inharmonicity paper.

10klapuri
Multiple-f0 estimation algorithm. Iterative multiband f0 search and spectral subtraction and smoothing.

11yeh
Multiple-f0 estimation algorithm. [Wasn't being absorbed]. Joint f0 estimation with polyphony inference.

12gagnon
Determination of fret-width hand position and # of strings played achieved with neural network solution. Input to NN: scaled energy vector of frequency bands. Output of each of six NNs: 19-dim binary vector indicating hand position. Each one of the six NN's trained to recognize its index's number of strings playing. However, ambiguity of played strings is not solved.

13ogrady
Modification of a guitar with a Roland hexaphonic pickup to capture distinct strings. NMF to generate activations and piano roll.

14jarvelainen
Inharmonicity is a psychoacoustically important feature, interacting with perceived pitch. Slightly more in-depth discussion of inharmonicity physics.

15godsill
Bayesian modeling of inharmonic music signals. "Not focused for any particular application".

16rauhala
Similar inharmonicity calculation algorithm to that which Barbancho used; seeds B calculation with f1 instead of f0. Instead of fitting curve iteratively with increasing partial numbers like Barbancho, Rauhala iterates/steps the actual B value itself until the concavity/convexity of the partial deviation curve settles to 0.

18radisavljevic
Guitar scores are used to generate optimal tablatures through a state transition path search thing.

19radicioni
Graph-search formulated solution to producing, again, optimal fingering/tabs given a music score.

20tuohy
Genetic algorithm to create tabs and NN to create fingering from music score.

26traube
Plucking-point estimation by minimizing error between input magnitude spectra and bank of ideal plucked string spectra

27penttinen
Real-time plucking-point estimation for saddle-pickup guitars achieved by mainly searching ACF for negative peak (trough), which corresponds to the time taken for the oppositely-travling transverse wave to reach the guitar pickup

28abesser
Plucking and playing style classification achieved with array of feature-space manipulation and classification options. See citations for more details on those.

28abesser12abesser

28abesser13lukashevich

29traube
More ACF-based plucking-point estimation, built off of [27,28].

31karjalainen
Inharmonicity in acoustic guitar is perceivable, but non-critically. Most noticeable for lower strings, attack portions of notes, and for degrees higher than that naturally present in guitar playing.

32fletcher
In-depth study of piano tones' defining psychoacoustic attributes. Among them, inharmonicity of low notes' (below middle C) partials is key.
